# Executive Summary
The purpose of this lab is to describe various database models and practice querying a database with SQL (structured query language). Additionally, recognizing key ethical and legal implications regarding information systems is reviewed.
## Data, Information, and Knowledge
### Relational Data
Data are raw facts which may be devoid of context or intent. Information is a form of fata which is processed giving it context, relevance, and purpose. Knowledge is beliefs or perceptions about relationships regarding information that facilitate action. 

When creating a database, there are several different factors that go into it. First, a primary key is needed, for example in a database for customer orders, the primary key might be customer names. The relation between the customer and the orders is through the connection of the specific customer and their specific order. The foreign key, or what connects the customer and order tables, might be an order number which is uniquely assigned to each customer's order. In this scenario, the order table would likely have a date/time field. This is important because the data type tells the database what can be done with the data itself, and so that the proper amount of storage is saved in order to store the data. 
### Big Data
There are 4 V's that are important in big data. First, the volume or size of the data that is being considered. Second, the variety of data due to the number of possiblities such as emails, photos, or PDFs. Third, velocity or the speed of data generation and processed. Finally, variability or the inconsistency that can be shown by the data over time. All of these thing shave to be taken into consideration when creating storage for big data. The need for big data storage has grown over time due to things like the stock exchange and social media websites and it will continue to grow with their usage. 
## Structured Query Language 
RDBMS or relational database managment systems is the basis for SQL. All daya is stored in tables which is then broken up into smaller fields. This is related to SQL because SQL is is a language used for acessing and manipulating databases such as the RDBMS. 

In the lab diagram, two tables that are related are the customers and employees. The connection between them would be that each order is put together by a specific employee who has their own ID. The primary key for these would be employee ID and custoemr ID. The foreign key would be the order ID which is what connects the two tables. 
### SQL Injections
When using SQL, there are things that can be done to hack or destroy a database. One example is SQL injections. This occurs when you unknowingly run something through your statement, in a situation where you are asking the user for some input, and it hacks or destroys your database. A user could potentially gain more information than they are allowed to see or alter or delete the database in some form using this. To protect against it, SQL parameters can be used. These are values added to the query in a controlled manner during execution. They are treated literally and check to make sure that each parameter entered is correct for its column.
## Ethical and Legal Implications
### Code of Ethics
A code of ethics is a document that outlines a set of acceptable behaviors for a professional or social group and it normally defines what actions are or are not considered appropriate. The Association for Computing Machinery created a code of ethics because members of the group must follow these guidelines or risk their membership being terminated since they are professional group consisting of many researchers, academics, and practitioners. 

An acceptable use policy is simiar to a code of ethics in that it is a list of things that are and are not acceptable when using the service. However, unlike a code of ethics, these guidelines are specific to the service trying to be accessed and are not a set of guidelines that is recommended for everyday life. 

For Digital Reality (https://www.digitalrealty.com/acceptable-use-policy see policy here) part of their acceptable use policy states that their service may not be used to perform anything illegal such as infringement of intellectual property. This may seem a pretty normal expectation but everyone's personal ethics are diffferent and to some doing this may not seem like something wrong to do. 
### Intellectual Property
The WIPO is a global forum for intellectual property services, policy, information and cooperation. Their efforts help people to realize the importance of intellectual property. 

A copyright is a form of protection granted to some intellectual property that gives the owner of it certain rights such as distribution, reproduction, or performance. To obtain one the author/creator simply must create the work. However, they must register their work with the copyright office, which then protects the work for life plus sometime after death, for public use or reproduction situations. For a previous lab, we created the svg image. Copyrighting it may be a good idea if it is something you are planning to use for yourself so that other people cannot use it for themselves or reproduce the image. If the image became an identifier for goods or services then it would be important to get it trademarked. Doing this protects the consumer by letting them know that your items are the original version that they are looking for. 
### Information Collection
Certain things restrict information collection via the internet. COPPA, FERPA, and HIPPA are all examples of this. COPPA is in place to require children to fet parental consent before data is collected in order to protecct their identity and privacy, FERPA is a similar situation but it protects sudents who are 18 or older from having their records accessed. HIPPA gives the patient the right to control their medical record and requires providers to get specific permission before they can share the information with anyone. Without these types of acts, there is nothing to stop this information from being collected and shared on the internet where anyone could access it. 
# Conclusion
The purpose of this lab was to describe various database models and practice querying a database with SQL (structured query language). Additionally, recognizing key ethical and legal implications regarding information systems was reviewed. The part of the lab that was more difficult at first was using SQL but after stepping away for a bit and starting over it made a lot more sense. This was also the most interesting part since databases are not something I have encountered often but I can now see the benefit of using them whenever possible. 
