# Executive Summary
The purpose of this lab is to identify network compnenets, topologies, and understand the role of the NSA in cybersecurity. Additionally, encyrption and approaches to cybersecurity to reduce threats will be reviewed. 
## Lucidchart
The purpose of Lucidchart is to utilize a visual workspace to visualize process, technical systems, etc. Using the resources avaiable on the site, it is very simple to create a diagram for whatever needs a project may have. It is a great way to make sure that everyone stays on the same page regarding when and how things should be done, programmed, tested, etc. 
## Introduction to Networking
### Data Transmission
There are several important terms that fall under the umbrella of data transmission.
1. Packet: The unit of data that is transmittied via the internet.
2. IP Address: The unique identifying number that every device has.
3. DNS: A.k.a the domain name server is a directory of IP address common names. For example 54.239.26.214 might be the IP address of amazon.com.
4. Packet-Switching: Technology that allows packets of data to be routed based on destination address. 
5. Protocol: The set of rules to allow devices to communicate.

All of these things are related because, for any one piece of data to be transmitted, it must follow protocol to originate at a specific IP address as a packet, then access the DNS so that the IP address of the recieving destination is located, and finally use paclet switching to send and reassemble the original packet to the reciever can access it. 
### Network Hardware 
There are three major pieces of networking hardware to be concerned about: routers, switches, and hubs.
A hub does not filter any data it recieves and sends it to every device connected to its port. A switch is similar but it is able to learn the physical destination of any connected devices and is therefore able to send data to a specific device connected to the port so it is more secure than a hub. This reduces unnecessary traffic on the network. However, hubs and switches can only be used to send data within their local network, to send data over the internet the device needs to be able to read IP addresses. A router is able to read IP addresses to determine whether a data packet is meant for its own network or for another network. If it was meant for another network the router then sends that packet to another network or accept the packet if it was in fact meant for its network.
### Network Topologies
A single point of failure is when the central hub or switch of the topology fails and causes the entire network to go down. This occurs in the star, bus and ring topologies. 

Infrastructure topology is a wireless topology that uses a combination of wired and wireless devices. It functions similar to a star topology but contains wireless access points to allow for wirless devices to connect to the wired network. 
Wireless mesh topology is when each computer on the network is connected to a wireless access point which then connects with other WAPs to eventually connect to the modem and the internet. The advantage of this is that even if a few WAPs go down, the devices can still communicate with the other devices and get the data to its destination using a different path.

The wireless mesh topology is the most beneficial of the toplogies because it removes the failure that can occur when wired connections are involved such as in the infrastructure toplogy. If a part of the wired network failed then the wireless part of it would not be able to connect. 
### Network Design
The topology displayed by the diagram is a wireless mesh topology consisting of two computers and a printer each connected to a wireless access point which then connect to a router to create the wireless network. 
### NSA/CSS
The NSA plays a large role in cybersecurity for the U.S. They provide education, products and services, technical guidance and advisories, and threat intelligence and assesments  that are available to whoever may need it. They provide support, knowledge and assistance to the military cryptology community through the CSS. 
## Cybersecurity and Encryption
### Information Systems Security
The three parts of the security triad are integrity, confidetiality, and availability. A good example of how these things coincide is Amazon's customer service chat. The biggest aspect that effects the job is availability as Amazon services people all around the world 24/7 so there must always be a representative available to provide assistance. The second biggest part is integrity, customer service representatives have access to people's accounts and it is important that this information is not used incorrectly or harmfully. The last part is confidentiality, this also is an important aspect because people hold a certain level of trust in the company and expect their address, name, contact information and payment information to stay confidential unless providing permission in order to purchase or rturn items. 

Authentication is becoming more and more common in today's technology heavy society. It is used daily for things like logging into social media with a username and password, entering a pin when using a debit card at the store, and logging into a phone wiht a pin or password. All of these things, however, could be converted into multifactor authentication which is more secure. For logging into facebook someone could log in with a username and password and then be required to enter a 4 digit code that is sent to their mobile device. When using a debit card banks could require approval from their app before the transaction will be approved on their end. When logging in to a phone, someone could require finger print verification after the pin or password has been entered. 

Once someone's identity is authenticated, a lot of times they are only given access for certain things. An Access Control List (ACL) is used often to give certain people specific permissions such as to read, write, delete, or add to a file. The users will only be able to perform the functions that they were specifically given permission for. The advantage of this is that specific people can be given specific permissions that correspond to their job instead of everyone being able to access everything. The disadvantage of this is that each resource is managed separately so if someone needed new permissions for large amount of informationit would be difficult and time consuming. Additionally, as the number of users grows it becomes harder to manage. Because of this Role-Based Acess Control (RBAC) was created. This form of access control gives rspecific roles various permissions and then each user is assigned to a role corresponding to their needs. The advatage of this is that users and roles are managed separately so a user can be removed quickly or a role can be changed quickly which would automatically adjust the users permissions. There are not any major disadvantages to this form because it is so easily adjustable to fit any number of roles and people.

When encypting data, the software recieves the plain text and then encodes it to be sent to the recipient. The recipient recieves it as cipher text and decodes it back to plain text. One common form of encoding and decoding is public key encription. This uses a public key and a private key. To encode soeone would obtain a public key, encode and then send the message. The recipient would then use their private key to decode it. The public key is given to anyone who needs to send the reciver a message but the private key is required to decode the information sent with the public key. 

Public key cryptography is very important today. It allows people to send encoded information using a shared public key, which anyone has access to, but requires an agreed upon private key which is a combination fo two individual private keys so that the messages can be decoded but only by the correct people. 
### Cryptography
The ceaser cipher works by shifting the alphabet a predetermined number of times so that the original letter is represented by a different one so many letters after it. When you use the ceaser cipher exploration tool and enter "cryptography is a growing field" into it you can turn the wheel to select your shift and dsiplay your encryption. After turing the wheel this displayed as "jyfwavnyhwof pz h nyvdpun mplsk" becuase the shift set a equal to h so each letter was shifted 6 to encode the message. 

When using the frequency fingerprint exploration tool to type in "hello my name is julia what is your name" it displayed that e is the most frequently used letter followed by a and t. For different languages, the most frequent letter would change since different languages have various lengths for the alphabet and various conjugations of verbs and other words. 

A polyalphabetic cipher uses a predetermined shift word of a certain length to convert each letter to a number and then shift each number by the amount of the word length. 

When you type "hello my name is julia" into the message box and use "peanuts" as the shift word it displays "xjmzj gr dfns dm ckqqjo" which is the letter that corresponds to the number of the original letter plus 7 which is the length of the shift word.
### Brute-Force
The brute force technique is using every possible decryption for a cipher to decode the message that was encoded. Kerckhoff's principle states that even if everyone knows the cipher works and someone else has the cipher text that it should still be secure. However, the most important part of a cipher is the part that keps the message secret and because of the brute force technique this information is very easy to find. 
# Conslusion
The purpose of this lab was to explore network compnenets, topologies, and understand the role of the NSA in cybersecurity. Additionally, encyrption and approaches to cybersecurity to reduce threats were reviewed. The most difficult part to understand was the information regarding encryption but it is something that merits further research as it is very important and a growing field. However, this was also the most interesting part of the lab because there are so many different encryption methods that can be used or even still created. 
