# Executive Summary
The purpose of this lab is to explore a two main areas: hardware and data representation. First, to define various hardware compenents and explain their function. I will discuss hard drives and memory compenents such as CPU, SSD and RAM. Then, I will go over input and output, logic gates, and the importance of ethics in device creation. Finally, I explain data representation and gain experience converting with decimal, binary and hexadecimal. 
## Hardware
### Hard drives and memory
The CPU (Central Processing Unit) of a computer carries out commands sent to it by software and returns results to be acted upon. It consist of multiple processors which increase processing power by providing the capability of multiple CPUs. The speed or "clock time" is measured in Hertz. In 1965 Moore's Law stated that computing power would double every 2 years and this has stood true since then. Today, however, we are reaching the point where circuits cannot be reduced much further so the rate will slow. 

There are two options available today for long term data storage within the personal computer. The traditional hard drive uses a storage disk and a read/write arm to store data for later access even after the device is powered off. Given the moving components this style can develop mechanical issues. The newer solid state drive serves the same function but instead of writing data onto a spinning disk it uses flash memory to store the data. The speed of the SSD is much faster and as a result start up times have decreased. Aditionally, since there are no moving pieces things like dust entering the device or alignment issues don't effect the drive like they would a traditional hard drive.

RAM is a form of shorter term memory that requires power to continue storing data. In order for a computer to run a program it is first stored to the hard drive and then is loaded into RAM where the CPU can access it. When the memory is to low it will be sent back to the hard drive until there is enough room on the RAM for it so the CPU can access it. This significantly slows things down. Increasing RAM makes a computer run faster by increasing the amount of memeory available for data to be stored on which prevents the needed information being sent back to the hard drive in the first place. There are two speeds of RAM to be concerned with typically, 32 bit and 64 bit. Each refers to the number of bits of data transferred in one clock cycle. The old simm model could only transfer 32 bits at a time and is no longer being used in new computers. The newer dimm model is 64 bit so it can transfer twice the data in the same period of time. 
### ALU and the Control Unit
The Arithmetic Log Unit or ALU performs all mathematical operations inside the CPU. It is located within the control unit which recieves instructions from the RAM and breaks them down into commands for the specific components such as the ALU. When the control unit sends a command to the ALU it is then performed and  is used by the control unit as needed.
### CPU, Input & Output
One piece of equipment in particular, a self checkout, is a good exaple of the use of a CPU given some input to display specific output. First,it recieves input in the form of a barcode. It then converts this input into a number in binary. The CPU recieves this information and then requests instructions from the memory on how to display the information on the screen. It runs the instructions, stores the results in memory and then sends the reults in binary to the screen. The screen functions as an output device so it converts the binary into the colors and lights that allow us to see the information.
### Logic Gates
In computer processing, a logic gate takes two pieces of information, compares them and then sends out a new piece of information depending on what is found. A truth table is used to show the output you can get for every possible input. This is useful for computer programming because computers are constantly making decisions on what to do with certain pieces of information. These decisions are based on wether or not a piece of informaion is true or false based on the logic gate used.
### IEEE - Ethicallly ALigned Devices
IEEE is a professinal association that is comitted to advancing innovation and technology for the benefit of humanity. They have been a large factor in the ethical guidelines created and used by many companies involved in the creation of AI devices. The use of ethics in AI or any type of device design is very important. It prevents the creation of devices that exculde certain demographics or harbor personal information unkowningly to the user which can be harmful. Without a set of ethical guidelines that can be regulary employed, there is nothing preventing someone from creating something that can be used to intentionally cause harm.
## Data Representation
### Numeric Conversions
Decimal number use the base 10 system which is what we use to count. So things are counted using 10 digits and bundles of 10. So, for example, 231 has 1 number in the ones place, 3 bundles in the tens place aka 30, and 2 bundle in the hundreds place, which is ten bundles of 10, aka 200 in this case. 

Binary uses the base 2 system so it counts using 2 different digits, 0 and 1. The places are respresented in decimal using powers of 2: 128,64,32,16,8,4,2 and 1. For examle 231 has 1 128, 1 64, 1 32, 0 16, 0 8, 1 4, 1 2 and 1 1 in it. So when you add 128,64, etc. the result is 231 in this case. 

Hexadecimal uses the base 16 system meaning it has 16 digits. In this case the places are represented in powers of 16. They are represented using: 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,A,B,C,D,E,F. This is the standard representation but the letters are a simplification to represent the numbers 10,11,12,13,14,15,16. So the number 231 would be represented as E7 because there are 14 Es or "16"s and 7 "1"s which would be 224+7.
### Hexadecimal Color Representation
The color #abb0ff can be represetned in hexadecimal form because it has a certain intensity of red, green and blue each between 0 and 255. Since hexadecimal can represent large number much more simply it is typically used in programming. More specifically, hexadecimal is used because all colors will use no higher than FF since the highest any intensity can be is 255. So, this specific color has a red intensity of 171, green 176 and blue 255. Regarding website accesibility, this color could be a bit problematic. The recommended contrast ratio for background text to color is 4.5:1. Unless someone wants a black or slightly lighter background, it is hard to achieve this ratio when using standard font sizing. You could increase text size which would lower the ratio or provide an option to adjust the site colors for people who need higher or lower contrast to access the information being provided. In today's world, you want to make sure that everyone can acces your website even people with poor vision or those who may be color blind that rely on contrast to read any information. 
# Conclusion
The purpose of this lab was to become familiar wth different aspects of hadware and data representation. The readings covered a large amount of information about the phsyical aspects of the computer, specifically hard drives and memory components. The videos were an excellent resource for learning, understanding and practicing numeric conversions and the different types of base systems. While I struggled to understand the hexadecimal bit, the last part of the lab regarding hexadecimal colors was very interesting. The color information and the information about ethically aligned devices really brought to light the importance of ethics and accesibility in today's tech heavy society. 
